README.md, before:

# whatsapp-bot

Send personalized messages via WhatsApp Web using contacts from an Excel file, event details from JSON, and a message template.

## Files

- [main.py](main.py) — core program with functions: `read_contacts`, `read_event`, `read_template`, `setup_driver`, `wait_for_logged_in`, `send_message`, `send_messages`
- [requirements.txt](requirements.txt) — Python dependencies
- [.gitignore](.gitignore) — ignored files/patterns

### Files you need to create (not in repo)

- `contacts.xlsx` — Excel file with contact information (see format below)
- `event.json` — JSON file with event details (see format below)
- `template.txt` — message template with placeholders (see format below)

### Example files provided

- [contacts.example.xlsx](contacts.example.xlsx) — example contact format
- [event.example.json](event.example.json) — example event format
- [template.example.txt](template.example.txt) — example message template

## Description

This tool reads:

- Contact info (Name, Nickname, Number) from `contacts.xlsx`
- Event details from `event.json`
- Message template from `template.txt`

It then opens WhatsApp Web via Selenium and sends personalized messages to each unique phone number.

## File Formats

### contacts.xlsx

Excel file with these columns (case-sensitive):

- `Name` — full name
- `Nickname` — personalized greeting name
- `Number` — phone number (without country code)

Example:

```text
Name          | Nickname | Number
John Doe      | John     | 791234567
Jane Smith    | Jane     | 799876543
```

### event.json

JSON file with event details. Keys must match placeholders in template:

```json
{
  "groom": "Groom Name",
  "bride": "Bride Name",
  "date": "DD-MM-YYYY",
  "day": "Day Name",
  "time": "Event Time",
  "gather_time": "Gathering Time",
  "destination": "Event Location",
  "source": "Meeting Point",
  "map1": "https://maps.google.com/link1",
  "map2": "https://maps.google.com/link2"
}
```

### template.txt

Message template with placeholders in `{placeholder}` format:

- `{nickname}` — replaced with contact's nickname from Excel
- Other placeholders — replaced with values from event.json

Example:

```text
السلام عليكم {nickname}
اتشرف بدعوتكم لجاهة خطوبة ابني:
{groom} و {bride}
- يوم {day} الموافق {date} الساعة ({time}) {destination}
```

## Setup

1. Create and activate a virtual environment:

   ```bash
   # Windows (PowerShell)
   python -m venv myenv
   .\myenv\Scripts\Activate.ps1
   
   # Windows (cmd)
   python -m venv myenv
   .\myenv\Scripts\activate
   
   # macOS / Linux
   python3 -m venv myenv
   source myenv/bin/activate
   ```

2. Install dependencies:

   ```bash
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```

3. Create required files:
   - Copy `event.example.json` to `event.json` and fill in your event details
   - Copy `template.example.txt` to `template.txt` and customize your message
   - Create `contacts.xlsx` with your contacts (use `contacts.example.xlsx` as reference)

## Usage

1. Ensure Chrome is installed (Selenium will auto-download ChromeDriver)
2. Run:

   ```bash
   python main.py
   ```

The script will:

- Open WhatsApp Web and wait for login (scan QR code on first run)
- For each contact:
  - Open chat with their number
  - Insert personalized message (nickname from Excel + event details from JSON)
  - Send the message
- Log successes and failures

## Notes & Troubleshooting

- Scan QR code on first run; session persists in `chrome-data/` folder
- Phone numbers should be plain digits without country code (default: `962` for Jordan)
- To change country code, edit `country_code='962'` in `send_message()` function
- Duplicate numbers are automatically removed
- Script logs progress to console
- If ChromeDriver download hangs, run `pip install --upgrade selenium` and try again
- Automation may violate WhatsApp terms; use responsibly

## Reusability

The bot is designed to be reusable:

- Keep the same `contacts.xlsx` for different events
- Just update `event.json` with new event details
- Modify `template.txt` to change message format
- Add new placeholders: add keys to `event.json` and use `{key}` in template

## License

Personal project — use responsibly

Commit message:

added vcf to excel converter

README.md, after:

# whatsapp-bot

Send personalized messages via WhatsApp Web using contacts from an Excel file, event details from JSON, and a message template.

## Files

- [main.py](main.py) — core program with functions: `read_contacts`, `read_event`, `read_template`, `setup_driver`, `wait_for_logged_in`, `send_message`, `send_messages`
- [requirements.txt](requirements.txt) — Python dependencies
- [.gitignore](.gitignore) — ignored files/patterns

### Files you need to create (not in repo)

- `contacts.xlsx` — Excel file with contact information (see format below)
- `event.json` — JSON file with event details (see format below)
- `template.txt` — message template with placeholders (see format below)

### Example files provided

- [contacts.example.xlsx](contacts.example.xlsx) — example contact format
- [event.example.json](event.example.json) — example event format
- [template.example.txt](template.example.txt) — example message template

## Description

This tool reads:

- Contact info (Name, Nickname, Number) from `contacts.xlsx`
- Event details from `event.json`
- Message template from `template.txt`

It then opens WhatsApp Web via Selenium and sends personalized messages to each unique phone number.

## File Formats

### contacts.xlsx

Excel file with these columns (case-sensitive):

- `Name` — full name
- `Nickname` — personalized greeting name
- `Number` — phone number (without country code)

Example:

```text
Name          | Nickname | Number
John Doe      | John     | 791234567
Jane Smith    | Jane     | 799876543
```

### event.json

JSON file with event details. Keys must match placeholders in template:

```json
{
  "groom": "Groom Name",
  "bride": "Bride Name",
  "date": "DD-MM-YYYY",
  "day": "Day Name",
  "time": "Event Time",
  "gather_time": "Gathering Time",
  "destination": "Event Location",
  "source": "Meeting Point",
  "map1": "https://maps.google.com/link1",
  "map2": "https://maps.google.com/link2"
}
```

### template.txt

Message template with placeholders in `{placeholder}` format:

- `{nickname}` — replaced with contact's nickname from Excel
- Other placeholders — replaced with values from event.json

Example:

```text
السلام عليكم {nickname}
اتشرف بدعوتكم لجاهة خطوبة ابني:
{groom} و {bride}
- يوم {day} الموافق {date} الساعة ({time}) {destination}
```

## Setup

1. Create and activate a virtual environment:

   ```bash
   # Windows (PowerShell)
   python -m venv myenv
   .\myenv\Scripts\Activate.ps1
   
   # Windows (cmd)
   python -m venv myenv
   .\myenv\Scripts\activate
   
   # macOS / Linux
   python3 -m venv myenv
   source myenv/bin/activate
   ```

2. Install dependencies:

   ```bash
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```

3. Create required files:
   - Copy `event.example.json` to `event.json` and fill in your event details
   - Copy `template.example.txt` to `template.txt` and customize your message
   - Create `contacts.xlsx` with your contacts (use `contacts.example.xlsx` as reference)
   - OR use the VCF converter utility (see below) if you have contacts in VCF format

## Usage

1. Ensure Chrome is installed (Selenium will auto-download ChromeDriver)
2. Run:

   ```bash
   python main.py
   ```

The script will:

- Open WhatsApp Web and wait for login (scan QR code on first run)
- For each contact:
  - Open chat with their number
  - Insert personalized message (nickname from Excel + event details from JSON)
  - Send the message
- Log successes and failures

## Notes & Troubleshooting

- Scan QR code on first run; session persists in `chrome-data/` folder
- Phone numbers should be plain digits without country code (default: `962` for Jordan)
- To change country code, edit `country_code='962'` in `send_message()` function
- Duplicate numbers are automatically removed
- Script logs progress to console
- If ChromeDriver download hangs, run `pip install --upgrade selenium` and try again
- Automation may violate WhatsApp terms; use responsibly

## VCF to Excel Converter

If you have contacts exported as a VCF file, use the included `vcf_to_excel.py` utility to convert them to the required Excel format:

```bash
python vcf_to_excel.py contacts.vcf
```

This will create `contacts.xlsx` with:

- Name and Number columns populated from the VCF file
- Nickname column left empty for you to fill manually

**Note:** Some Arabic names may not display correctly due to encoding issues in the source VCF file. You may need to manually correct these names in the Excel file after conversion.

Optionally specify a custom output file:

```bash
python vcf_to_excel.py contacts.vcf my_contacts.xlsx
```

## Reusability

The bot is designed to be reusable:

- Keep the same `contacts.xlsx` for different events
- Just update `event.json` with new event details
- Modify `template.txt` to change message format
- Add new placeholders: add keys to `event.json` and use `{key}` in template

## License

Personal project — use responsibly
